README.md, before:

# automx2: Email client configuration made easy

automx2 makes configuring email accounts easy. It unites methods for automated mailbox configuration from Apple's
[Mobileconfig](https://support.apple.com/de-de/guide/profile-manager/pmdbd71ebc9/mac), Microsoft's
[Autodiscover](https://docs.microsoft.com/de-de/exchange/architecture/client-access/autodiscover?view=exchserver-2019)
and Mozilla's [Autoconfig](https://developer.mozilla.org/de/docs/Mozilla/Thunderbird/Autokonfiguration) in one tool.
automx2 is successor to automx. It has been designed to be easier to setup, easier to configure and easier to use.

## Copyright

automx2 is Copyright © 2019-2022 Ralph Seichter.
automx2 is licensed under the GNU General Public License V3 or later. The project is hosted on GitHub in the
[rseichter/automx2](https://github.com/rseichter/automx2) repository and published on
[PyPI.org](https://pypi.org/project/automx2/).

## Documentation

Detailed documentation is available in [HTML](https://rseichter.github.io/automx2/),
[PDF](https://github.com/rseichter/automx2/blob/master/docs/automx2.pdf) and
[other formats](https://github.com/rseichter/automx2/blob/master/docs).

## Contributing

To avoid copyright issues, I do not currently accept code contributions. I hope that this will change at some point
in the future, but for now, please refrain from opening merge requests.

However, submitting ideas, suggestions and bug reports in the form of
[GitHub issues](https://github.com/rseichter/automx2/issues) is welcome. Please refer to
[this blog article](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/2016/03/03/start-with-an-issue/) for an explanation on why issues
are a good method to share and discuss ideas.

## Sponsorship

It is possible to sponsor specific new features. Please contact me via email to discuss this in detail.

Commit message:

2022.5 automua release > CHANGELOG for diff summary

README.md, after:

# automua: Email client configuration made easy

automua makes configuring email accounts easy. It unites methods for automated mailbox configuration from Apple's
[Mobileconfig](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/profile-manager/pmdbd71ebc9/mac), Microsoft's
[Autodiscover](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/exchange/architecture/client-access/autodiscover?view=exchserver-2019)
and Mozilla's [Autoconfig](https://hlfh.github.io/autoconfiguration/) in one tool.
automua is a fork of automx2. It accepts code contributions.

## Copyright
automua is a fork of automx2.
Check per-file copyright notices to see the sole modifications and the new files of the fork automua that are Copyright © 2022 Gaspard d'Hautefeuille.
automx2 and most of the files of the fork are Copyright © 2019-2022 Ralph Seichter.

automua is licensed under the GNU General Public License V3 or later. The project is hosted on GitHub in the [HLFH/automua](https://github.com/HLFH/automua) repository. It is published on [PyPI.org](https://pypi.org/project/automua/) and [Arch Linux AUR](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/automua).

## Documentation

Detailed documentation is available in [HTML](https://hlfh.github.io/automua/),
[PDF](https://github.com/hlfh/automua/blob/master/docs/automua.pdf) and
[other formats](https://github.com/hlfh/automua/blob/master/docs).

## Contributing

This project accepts code contributions.

Furthermore, submitting ideas, suggestions, requests and bug reports in the form of
[GitHub issues](https://github.com/hlfh/automua/issues) is welcome.

## Sponsorship

It is possible to sponsor specific new features. Please contact me via email to discuss this in detail.
