docs/dbconfig.adoc, before:

// vim:ts=4:sw=4:et:ft=asciidoc

[[dbconf]]
=== Database configuration

automx2 uses the SQLAlchemy toolkit to access databases.
This allows a variety of databases, a.k.a. link:https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/dialects/[dialects], to be used, simply by defining the appropriate connection URL.

[NOTE]
.API based configuration
====
I consider adding an API for configuration changes in an upcoming version but have not decided when that might happen.
Feel free to contact me if you are interested in a <<Sponsorship,sponsorship>>.
====

==== Database support

While you probably already have SQLite support available on your local machine, you may need to install additional Python packages for PostgreSQL, MySQL, etc.
Detailed instructions to support a particular database dialect are out of scope for this document.
Please search the Internet for detailed instructions on supporting a particular dialect.
The SQLAlchemy documentation provides a useful starting point.

While the `contrib` directory contains example database schemas which you can use as a reference, I recommend using the
built-in method to create the necessary DB structure from scratch by sending a HTTP GET request to the `/initdb/`
service endpoint.
This will also populate the database with some hard-coded example data.
Alternatively, you can send a POST request with custom JSON data to the same endpoint, as described below.

[IMPORTANT]
.Purging the database
====
Sending a HTTP DELETE request to `/initdb/` will purge all existing data.
Be sure to limit access accordingly!
====

If you upgrade from an early automx2 release and wish to migrate your existing database, you can use the built-in Alembic support.
However, this requires cloning the Git repository, modifying `alembic.ini` and invoking the migration from the command line.
It is usually easier to export your existing data, create a fresh DB and import the data.

==== SQLite

This section demonstrates what you need to do to in order to use SQLite version 3 or higher as a backend database for automx2.

Step 1: Set the database URI in your automx2 configuration.
Please note that specifying an absolute path for the database requires a total of four slashes after the schema identifier:

[source,ini]
----
[automx2]
db_uri = sqlite:////var/lib/automx2/db.sqlite
----

Step 2: Launch automx2 and access the DB initialisation URL.

[source,bash]
----
# Method 1: Populate DB with example data
curl -X GET http://127.0.0.1:4243/initdb/
# Method 2: Populate DB based on the content of a JSON file
curl -X POST --json @mydata.json http://127.0.0.1:4243/initdb/
----

Starting with automx2 version 2022.0, JSON data can be used to populate the database in a simplified manner, without the need to use SQL statements.
The required data format is as follows:

[source,json]
----
include::../contrib/seed-example.json[]
----

Using JSON is recommended when you are content with automx2 choosing some details like port numbers or socket types for you.

If you prefer SQL statements for greater control of the database content, the Git repository contains a xref:../contrib/sqlite-generate.sh[sqlite-generate.sh] helper script which demonstrates how the database can be populated programmatically.
You only need to adapt a few settings according to your needs:

[source,bash]
----
include::../contrib/sqlite-generate.sh[lines=10..15]
----

The script will print the SQL statements to standard output, which can be piped into `sqlite3` for processing.
Make sure to match the automx2.conf `db_uri` setting when specifying the database.

[source,bash]
----
contrib/sqlite-generate.sh | sqlite3 /var/lib/automx2/db.sqlite
----

Once you have populated the database automx2 is ready to run.

==== MySQL

Step 1: Create a database.

[source,mysql]
----
CREATE DATABASE `automx2` COLLATE 'utf8mb4_general_ci';
----

Step 2: Set the database URI in your automx2 configuration.
The following example uses _pymysql_ as a DB driver, which is not included in the automx2 distribution.

[source,ini]
----
[automx2]
db_uri = mysql+pymysql://user:pass@dbhost/automx2?charset=utf8mb4
----

Step 3: Launch automx2 and access the DB initialisation URL:

[source,bash]
----
curl http://127.0.0.1:4243/initdb/
----

==== PostgreSQL

Step 1: Create a database.

[source,postgresql]
----
CREATE DATABASE automx2 LOCALE 'en_US.utf8';
----

Step 2: Set the database URI in your automx2 configuration.
The following example uses _psycopg2_ as a DB driver, which is not included in the automx2 distribution.

[source,ini]
----
[automx2]
db_uri = postgresql+psycopg2://user:pass@dbhost/automx2
----

Step 3: Launch automx2 and access the DB initialisation URL:

[source,bash]
----
curl http://127.0.0.1:4243/initdb/
----

Commit message:

2022.5 automua release > CHANGELOG for diff summary

docs/dbconfig.adoc, after:

// vim:ts=4:sw=4:et:ft=asciidoc

[[dbconf]]
=== Database configuration

automua uses the SQLAlchemy toolkit to access databases.
This allows a variety of databases, a.k.a. link:https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/dialects/[dialects], to be used, simply by defining the appropriate connection URL.

[NOTE]
.API based configuration
====
I consider adding an API for configuration changes in an upcoming version but have not decided when that might happen.
Feel free to contact me if you are interested in a <<Sponsorship,sponsorship>>.
====

==== Database support

While you probably already have SQLite support available on your local machine, you may need to install additional Python packages for PostgreSQL, MySQL, etc.
Detailed instructions to support a particular database dialect are out of scope for this document.
Please search the Internet for detailed instructions on supporting a particular dialect.
The SQLAlchemy documentation provides a useful starting point.

While the `contrib` directory contains example database schemas which you can use as a reference, I recommend using the
built-in method to create the necessary DB structure from scratch by sending a HTTP GET request to the `/initdb/`
service endpoint.
This will also populate the database with some hard-coded example data.
Alternatively, you can send a POST request with custom JSON data to the same endpoint, as described below.

[IMPORTANT]
.Purging the database
====
Sending a HTTP DELETE request to `/initdb/` will purge all existing data.
Be sure to limit access accordingly!
====

If you upgrade from an early automua release and wish to migrate your existing database, you can use the built-in Alembic support.
However, this requires cloning the Git repository, modifying `alembic.ini` and invoking the migration from the command line.
It is usually easier to export your existing data, create a fresh DB and import the data.

==== SQLite

This section demonstrates what you need to do to in order to use SQLite version 3 or higher as a backend database for automua.

Step 1: Set the database URI in your automua configuration.
Please note that specifying an absolute path for the database requires a total of four slashes after the schema identifier:

[source,ini]
----
[automua]
db_uri = sqlite:////var/lib/automua/db.sqlite
----

Step 2: Launch automua and access the DB initialisation URL.

[source,bash]
----
# Method 1: Populate DB with example data
curl -X GET http://127.0.0.1:4243/initdb/
# Method 2: Populate DB based on the content of a JSON file
curl -X POST --json @mydata.json http://127.0.0.1:4243/initdb/
----

Starting with automua version 2022.0, JSON data can be used to populate the database in a simplified manner, without the need to use SQL statements.
The required data format is as follows:

[source,json]
----
include::../contrib/seed-example.json[]
----

Using JSON is recommended when you are content with automua choosing some details like port numbers or socket types for you.

If you prefer SQL statements for greater control of the database content, the Git repository contains a xref:../contrib/sqlite-generate.sh[sqlite-generate.sh] helper script which demonstrates how the database can be populated programmatically.
You only need to adapt a few settings according to your needs:

[source,bash]
----
include::../contrib/sqlite-generate.sh[lines=10..15]
----

The script will print the SQL statements to standard output, which can be piped into `sqlite3` for processing.
Make sure to match the automua.conf `db_uri` setting when specifying the database.

[source,bash]
----
contrib/sqlite-generate.sh | sqlite3 /var/lib/automua/db.sqlite
----

Once you have populated the database automua is ready to run.

==== MySQL

Step 1: Create a database.

[source,mysql]
----
CREATE DATABASE `automua` COLLATE 'utf8mb4_general_ci';
----

Step 2: Set the database URI in your automua configuration.
The following example uses _pymysql_ as a DB driver, which is not included in the automua distribution.

[source,ini]
----
[automua]
db_uri = mysql+pymysql://user:pass@dbhost/automua?charset=utf8mb4
----

Step 3: Launch automua and access the DB initialisation URL:

[source,bash]
----
curl http://127.0.0.1:4243/initdb/
----

==== PostgreSQL

Step 1: Create a database.

[source,postgresql]
----
CREATE DATABASE automua LOCALE 'en_US.utf8';
----

Step 2: Set the database URI in your automua configuration.
The following example uses _psycopg2_ as a DB driver, which is not included in the automua distribution.

[source,ini]
----
[automua]
db_uri = postgresql+psycopg2://user:pass@dbhost/automua
----

Step 3: Launch automua and access the DB initialisation URL:

[source,bash]
----
curl http://127.0.0.1:4243/initdb/
----
