docs/installation.adoc, before:

// vim:ts=4:sw=4:et:ft=asciidoc

[[install]]
== Installing automx2

automx2 requires Python version 3.7 or greater, ideally in the form of a virtual Python environment, to run.
Check the python3 version like this:

[source,bash]
----
$ python3 --version
Python 3.9.11
----

[IMPORTANT]
.Don't run as root
====
If you use a port number greater than 1024 (I suggest port 4243), the application does not require super user privileges when running.
Doing so would pose a security risk and is therefore strongly discouraged.
I recommend creating a fresh user account called `automx2`.
====

Prepare the virtual environment for the automx2 web service, adjusting the installation path to your taste (automx2 itself does not care).
The path `/srv/web/automx2` will be used as an example throughout this documentation.
The BASH shell commands below should work with any modern Linux distribution.

[source,bash]
----
# Best practice: Create a fresh user account.
sudo useradd --home-dir /srv/web/automx2 --create-home automx2

# Alternative: If the user account already exists.
# sudo bash -c 'mkdir -p /srv/web/automx2 && chown automx2 /srv/web/automx2'
----

Next, make sure to either login as the user created above, or change to this user via the 'su' command.
This is important to ensure the correct file permissions.
Download the script that will download and setup your automx2 service:

[source,bash]
----
cd /srv/web/automx2
wget https://github.com/rseichter/automx2/raw/master/contrib/setupvenv.sh
chmod u+x setupvenv.sh
----

Executing the setup script will create a Python virtual environment called `.venv` in the current directory.

[source,bash]
----
./setupvenv.sh
----

Activate the virtual environment and install the latest automx2 release from PyPI.
Make sure to pick the correct activation for your shell from the `.venv/bin` directory.
This is an example for BASH:

[source,bash]
----
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install automx2
----

[NOTE]
.Updating to a newer automx2 release
====
Change to the directory where automx2 has been installed previously.
Activate the virtual environment as usual and use pip's `--upgrade` option:

[source,bash]
----
cd /srv/web/automx2
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install --upgrade automx2
----
====

Commit message:

2022.5 automua release > CHANGELOG for diff summary

docs/installation.adoc, after:

// vim:ts=4:sw=4:et:ft=asciidoc

[[install]]
== Installing automua

[[archlinux]]
=== Installing via Arch Linux AUR

automua has been released link:https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/automua[on Arch Linux AUR] to simplify the installation and the setup. You would require the Arch Linux distribution for that end.
The AUR helper link:https://github.com/Jguer/yay[yay] is recommended.

[source,bash]
----
yay -S automua
----

[[manual]]
=== Installing from command line

automua requires Python version 3.7 or greater, ideally in the form of a virtual Python environment, to run.
Check the python3 version like this:

[source,bash]
----
$ python3 --version
Python 3.9.11
----

[IMPORTANT]
.Don't run as root
====
If you use a port number greater than 1024 (I suggest port 4243), the application does not require super user privileges when running.
Doing so would pose a security risk and is therefore strongly discouraged.
I recommend creating a fresh user account called `automua`.
====

Prepare the virtual environment for the automua web service, adjusting the installation path to your taste (automua itself does not care).
The path `/srv/http/automua` will be used as an example throughout this documentation.
The BASH shell commands below should work with any modern Linux distribution.

[source,bash]
----
# Best practice: Create a fresh user account.
sudo useradd --home-dir /srv/http/automua --create-home automua

# Alternative: If the user account already exists.
# sudo bash -c 'mkdir -p /srv/http/automua && chown automua /srv/http/automua'
----

Next, make sure to either login as the user created above, or change to this user via the 'su' command.
This is important to ensure the correct file permissions.
Download the script that will download and setup your automua service:

[source,bash]
----
cd /srv/http/automua
wget https://github.com/HLFH/automua/raw/master/contrib/setupvenv.sh
chmod u+x setupvenv.sh
----

Executing the setup script will create a Python virtual environment called `.venv` in the current directory.

[source,bash]
----
./setupvenv.sh
----

Activate the virtual environment and install the latest automua release from PyPI.
Make sure to pick the correct activation for your shell from the `.venv/bin` directory.
This is an example for BASH:

[source,bash]
----
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install automua
----

[NOTE]
.Updating to a newer automua release
====
Change to the directory where automua has been installed previously.
Activate the virtual environment as usual and use pip's `--upgrade` option:

[source,bash]
----
cd /srv/http/automua
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install --upgrade automua
----
====
