docs/webserver.adoc, before:

// vim:ts=4:sw=4:et:ft=asciidoc

[[wsconf]]
== Configuring a web server

While it is technically possible to run automx2 without a web server in front of it, I do not recommend doing that in a production environment.
A web server can provide features automx2 was designed not to have.
Features such as transport layer encryption for HTTPS (required for <<Mobileconfig>>) or, for example, the capability to rate-limit clients are handled very well by full-fledged web servers working as reverse proxies.
It would be a waste to re-implement all this in a web service.

This section will explain how to configure a web server as a reverse proxy in front of automx2. Before you set up the proxy you need to tell automx2 it operates behind one.
Add the `proxy_count` parameter to your automx2 configuration file or uncomment the parameter if it is already there:

[source,ini]
----
[automx2]
# A typical production setup would use loglevel = WARNING
loglevel = WARNING

# Disable SQL command echo.  <1>
db_echo = no

# SQLite database in a UNIX-like file system
db_uri = sqlite:////var/lib/automx2/db.sqlite

# Number of proxy servers between automx2 and the client (default: 0).
# If your logs only show 127.0.0.1 or ::1 as the source IP for incoming
# connections, proxy_count probably needs to be changed.  <2>
proxy_count = 1
----

<1> Echoing SQL commands is only meant for debugging purposes.
<2> Set the number to reflect the number of proxies chained in front of automx2, i.e. the number of "proxy hops" a client's request must pass before it reaches automx2.

[[nginx]]
=== NGINX

The following example defines a HTTP server, which will listen for requests to both _autoconfig.example.com_ and _autodiscover.example.com_.
All requests will be forwarded to automx2, which listens on TCP port 4243 in this example.
Requests to `/initdb` are restricted to clients connecting from the local host.
The
`proxy_set_header` directives will cause NGINX to pass relevant data about incoming requests' origins.

[source,nginx]
----
include::../contrib/nginx-sample.conf[]
----

[[apache]]
=== Apache

The following example shows an Apache configuration similar to the one above.
`ProxyPreserveHost` directives will cause apache to pass relevant data about incoming requests' origins.

[source,apache]
----
include::../contrib/apache-sample.conf[]
----

Commit message:

2022.5 automua release > CHANGELOG for diff summary

docs/webserver.adoc, after:

// vim:ts=4:sw=4:et:ft=asciidoc

[[wsconf]]
== Configuring a web server

While it is technically possible to run automua without a web server in front of it, I do not recommend doing that in a production environment.
A web server can provide features automua was designed not to have.
Features such as transport layer encryption for HTTPS (required for <<Mobileconfig>>) or, for example, the capability to rate-limit clients are handled very well by full-fledged web servers working as reverse proxies.
It would be a waste to re-implement all this in a web service.

This section will explain how to configure a web server as a reverse proxy in front of automua. Before you set up the proxy you need to tell automua it operates behind one.
Add the `proxy_count` parameter to your automua configuration file or uncomment the parameter if it is already there:

[source,ini]
----
[automua]
# A typical production setup would use loglevel = WARNING
loglevel = WARNING

# Disable SQL command echo.  <1>
db_echo = no

# SQLite database in a UNIX-like file system
db_uri = sqlite:////var/lib/automua/db.sqlite

# Number of proxy servers between automua and the client (default: 0).
# If your logs only show 127.0.0.1 or ::1 as the source IP for incoming
# connections, proxy_count probably needs to be changed.  <2>
proxy_count = 1
----

<1> Echoing SQL commands is only meant for debugging purposes.
<2> Set the number to reflect the number of proxies chained in front of automua, i.e. the number of "proxy hops" a client's request must pass before it reaches automua.

[[nginx]]
=== NGINX

The following example defines a HTTP server, which will listen for requests to both _autoconfig.example.com_ and _autodiscover.example.com_.
All requests will be forwarded to automua, which listens on TCP port 4243 in this example.
Requests to `/initdb` are restricted to clients connecting from the local host.
The
`proxy_set_header` directives will cause NGINX to pass relevant data about incoming requests' origins.

[source,nginx]
----
include::../contrib/nginx-sample.conf[]
----

[[apache]]
=== Apache

The following example shows an Apache configuration similar to the one above.
`ProxyPreserveHost` directives will cause apache to pass relevant data about incoming requests' origins.

[source,apache]
----
include::../contrib/apache-sample.conf[]
----
